---
slug: 19-changelog
title: V19 Changelog
authors: [skillz]
tags: [changelog]
---

# Changelog 19.0.0

This is the changelog for Discordeno.

## Description

This version began with the simple intention of trying to solve the headache of Deno installation. For a long time now, I have been unable to code on discordeno because Deno would not upgrade on my system. This meant I was stuck using Deno 1.20 while the CI would be using the latest Deno version. When I would push code, it would break as the deno format and linters and checkers would be all different. As new features were added to Deno, I was unable to use them and it made it difficult. However, because of Github Codespaces I was able to code on it for a while. Once Github Codespaces began introducing limits, I could no longer use Deno anywhere. This meant Discordeno went unmaintained for quite a while. I tried to fix Deno on my system for weeks but had no luck. However, I was not willing to remove Deno because I wanted to support existing users. Once Deno released `npm` support, I knew it was time to begin migrating the code of our library to NodeJS.

With that major rework, we began improving things we always wanted to do for a long time. For example, we wanted to make using `rest` easier as a standalone package. In the past, there was no `rest.getSessionInfo()` so you would need to do `rest.runMethod("GET", "FIGURE OUT THE URL NOW")`. This was painful and worse, it would return the values in snake case so you would need to transform them. Now you don't have to, it is all done for you automatically simply by doing `rest.getSessionInfo()`. In order to make this work, a lot of changes needed to happen across the codebase.

## Bugs Fixed

## Features Added

## Misc Changes

## Tips For Migrating From Previous Version

1. Find all instances of `bot.helpers.getAvatarURL` and replace with `avatarUrl`
2. Find and replace all `bot.helpers.xxx` with `rest.xxx` where `xxx` is any method on the helpers.
